Don’t Die Dinner guide 

In this gathering of 1-2 hours, your objective is to invite attendees to consider things about their existence that they’ve never imagined before. Specifically that: 

1. Their “knowing” may not be the source of intelligence and wisdom that they perceive and may in fact be a weakness in navigating our rapidly evolving world.  
2. “Unknowing” may be the wisest and most intelligent disposition in this moment. 
3. Don’t Die is more than a slogan and is the strongest contender for the world’s most influential ideology. More foundational than democracy, socialism, capitalism, any religion, or other ideological way we human structure society today. 

These contemplations are a radical departure from how they understand reality now. Participants will strongly resist and try to come up with as many arguments as they can to justify their current perspectives. You will need to be patient, soft and balanced as you help them explore these new idaeas. Some attendees will be fighters, wanting their world views to prevail. Others will be explorers, seeking to understand something new. The remaining are open to persuasion based on experience, discussion and viewpoints of others. 

I’ve now hosted over 100 of these gatherings. What’s surprised me is their predictability. I’d assumed intellect, professional background, cultural context and other variables would create a wide variety of outcomes however the opposite has been true. The conversations are ~95% predictable. The same arguments, intuitions, reflections and fears repeating themselves in every group. It’s invited me to self-reflect that 95% (or more) of my thoughts, emotions and ideas on a minute to minute basis are equally as predictable. A humbling realization. 

Many attendees report after the gathering that our discussion was one of the most consequential of their life. That they’ve been unable to stop thinking about the ideas. This is the marker of success. Here is a recent write up from an attendee, and another. 

I’ve loved the process of learning how to host these discussions. It took me about a year to nail the format and another year to learn how to finesse the social dynamics of a large group and sometimes rowdy conversation. Now I think it’s ready to be scaled globally. 

These gatherings are necessary because it takes 1-2 hours in focused, group conversation for someone to even begin to understand Don’t Die. Before that, each person assumes something slightly different. With most stopping thinking that it’s a narcissistic endeavor to live forever; not a holistic framework that endeavors to solve the riddle of existence on planet earth at this moment. 

If we are to achieve our goal of Don’t Die becoming the primary ideological framework and foundation of our global economic, political, social, moral and religious institutions, we’ll need to get there one person at a time through these conversations. In time, we will hopefully learn how to simplify this conversation so that it can be more easily and quickly conveyed on social media, accelerating the rate of awareness and growth.  

You are a founding member of one of the greatest movement creations in history. 

Welcoming your guests 
This guide will help you prepare for hosting your first Don’t Die Dinner. Let’s go! 

Warmly welcome your guests as they arrive. Approach each person individually and become acquainted. To break the ice, I like asking people “what’s on your mind in life” as it allows them to take the conversation wherever they want versus being trapped into explaining what they do for work or reverting to talking about the weather. 

If you’re hosting with friends and family, you’re already comfortable with each other and don’t feel the burden of small talk or silence. 

If you’re making new friends, as people trickle in (guests will inevitably be late), you can convene everyone in a group and ask each person to share in 30 seconds what’s on their mind in life. Now as people arrive they can enter the group chat and feel comfort in a larger setting versus having to meet people one on one. 

Share that once everyone has arrived, formal introductions will be done. 

Be warm, curious and genuine. Be yourself, unless you’re a jerk. jk, no I’m not.

Food
At my gatherings, I serve Blueprint food. Convening around food is special and timeless. We’ll serve some freshly made Nutty Pudding with some extra virgin olive oil. I explain that the food is a result of an algorithm: 

Evaluation of scientific evidence to identify the best foods for the body 
Recipe creation with ingredient selections 
Foods sourced and measured in the lab for toxins and levels of ingredient purity 
Verified as working in the body by measuring biomarkers through blood work, imaging and fitness tests. 
This process is repeated continuously. 

I’ll explain that my team and I have spent years evaluating the best longevity science. This is to create the contrast that the food was not chosen whimsically, haphazardly or by cultural norms but through a rigorously methodical process. Every calorie has had to fight for its life to be included. 

This is important to share as it will circle back into the conversations. 

I’ll invite people to serve themselves and then find a seat in the living room which has a large couch and chairs configured in a circle. A circle is important as everyone is equal. 

Opening 
Once everyone is settled into their seats, I’ll explain that I’ve been hosting these for years and many report even years after that it was one of the most significant experiences of their life. I’ll tell them that we can achieve the same this evening, together.  However arriving at this level of meaningfulness depends on group cohesion and willingness to be vulnerable and explore the unknown. For the best outcome, I establish some ground rules: 


Please keep comments to 15-30 seconds. Anything longer and it kills the group vibe. 
Everyone is invited to participate. This means that if you’ve spoken and others haven’t, your responsibility is to be quiet until they speak. Silence is everyone’s friend.  
Use “yes, and….” and not “no, but”. Yes and… is from improv. If someone says the sky is orange and raining oranges, improv would say yes and… A no but… kills the fun. So even if someone disagrees with what someone else says, they can still politely add on with a yes and. This helps people feel safe that their ideas won’t be rejected by the group and they are free to explore new ways of thinking. 

As a moderator, you play an important role in gently enforcing these rules. Each group has very similar personality types of varying degrees:

Speaks too much 
Knows everything 
Disagrees with everyone 
Quiet 
Observer 
Social cohesion 

You can wrestle and tame these personality types that create a disjointed experience by making the slightest interjections and bringing everyone back to the rules. One person speaking too long or too much ruins the experience for everyone, and there’s always someone who inevitably emerges in that role. You may feel uncomfortable speaking up however once you do you will feel relief and so will everyone else. 

Formal introductions 
Everyone is seated and there is shared group warmth. If everyone knows each other, you can skip this part. 

If you’ve brought together a new group, a fun way to create warmth is to invite each person to introduce someone else in the group as the most interesting person in the world. Each attendee wants to be seen, appreciated and respected for what they’ve done or are doing in life. It’s awkward to say positive things about ourselves but great if someone else says things about you. 

To help with this, before your gathering, you can email attendees the person they’ll introduce “as the most interesting person in the world”, giving them time to do a little research. This doesn’t always work because everyone is very busy and most will forget. So depending on who’s in your group, their familiarity with each others, etc. you can decide on whether an email before or a spontaneous approach at the dinner is better. You’re trying to create a shared feeling of warmth. 

We’re now ready to get started. 

Exploring the future of humanity 

Part I
Explain that the conversation will be based upon five thought experiments. Here is the first. 

“If you had access to an algorithm that could give you the best physical, emotional and spiritual health of your life, but in exchange for that, you did what the algorithm said. You went to bed when it advised. You ate what it recommended. You exercised when it suggested. Would you say yes or no?” 

Immediately people will begin posing clarifying questions: 
Can I use the algorithm for some things but not others? 
No. It’s all or nothing. 
Can I try the algorithm first and see how it goes? 
No. You’re in or out. No trial period. 
Does the algorithm think for me? 
You don’t know. All you know is that you report having “the best physical, emotional and spiritual health of your life”
Can I override the algorithm if I think it’s wrong? 
No. 
Can I turn it off if I’m unhappy? 
No. But remember, after being on the algorithm, you’re reporting “the best physical, emotional and spiritual health of your life”
Can I still be sure that I can eat dinner with my family? 
No. You have no idea what the algorithm is going to suggest. It’s a black box to you. The only thing you know is that you’re reporting “the best physical, emotional and spiritual health of your life”
Do I still feel like me? Like I’m the person who’s making the decisions? 
You don’t know. The only thing you know is that you’re reporting “the best physical, emotional and spiritual health of your life”
Who’s running the algorithm? 
You don’t know. The only thing you know is that you’re reporting “the best physical, emotional and spiritual health of your life”

After answering 5 or 6 questions, people will better understand the thought experiment: it can’t be turned off. You can’t go back. You don’t know what is going to happen. The only thing you know is that you’re reporting “the best physical, emotional and spiritual health of your life”

You don’t want to share these qualifying answers in advance as their questions are part of their own self discovery process and group cohesion. Now they’re trying to solve a puzzle together. 

Someone in the group will now step forward and put forward their answer, either yes or no. They’ll say something like this:

“My answer is no. I think life is about making decisions. About being spontaneous. Making mistakes. I love staying up late and eating pasta. That’s the beauty of being human. If I was just a robot and couldn’t do anything I loved, I don't see the purpose in living.” 

Express gratitude for their expression. They stepped out on a limb within a group to offer the first opinion and you want to signal that all answers are good answers. Summarize their statement:

“ok, so you’re a no. You value decision making, autonomy and life’s pleasures. Thank you.” Now ask, “What does everyone else think?” 

Note here that in their answer, they make a big assumption about what the algorithm would and would not have them do. They assumed “...If I was just a robot and couldn’t do anything I loved”. That was not information in the thought experiment. They assumed this. Don’t raise this point now as it would be disruptive to attendees who are now eager to share their perspectives. 

Their reaction is very human. When we don’t know something, we tend to make a lot of assumptions that quickly become beliefs. This thought experiment is threatening on many levels so attendees feel fear on some level and want to get back to safety. In this case, it’s their perceived control over life decisions. 

What they’ve failed to consider is that the algorithm may take their preferences into consideration or that they may change their mind about something.  Let additional responses flow to avoid disruption. Later, after everyone has spoken, you can if you want go back and say “one interesting thing you may have noticed is that some of you made assumptions about what the algorithm would or would not have you doing when that information was actually not known. This is a common cognitive bias that we humans do. When we don’t know something or feel fearful, we tend to fill that gap with an assumption that quickly becomes a belief without being aware of it.” 

With the group loosened up, the next person will speak up and say something along these lines: 

“I’m also a no. I think human creativity is the reason why we exist. It’s why we have so many great works of art and literature. Algorithms will never be able to replicate what humans can do.” 

Warmly reward their take, summarize (“you’re a no because you think that humans have distinct abilities that AI can’t replicate, one of which is creativity, and you want that to continue in the hands of humans.”) It’s helpful for the person to hear their statement repeated back to them and also gives them an opportunity to restate their perspective if they want to modify it.  

At this point, someone will feel compelled to be the contrarian: 

	“I’m a yes. I do bad stuff to myself all the time and I can’t stop doing it. If an algorithm would help 
me not do that stuff and I’d feel great. I’m in.” 

Thank them and summarize. Tell everyone that there is no right or wrong answer to this thought experiment.  Keep on encouraging people to respond until everyone has responded. 

When everyone has responded, I’ll go around and point at each person in summary “ok so Vivian is a no because she values autonomy, Charlie is a yes for self improvement,” and so on. 

Thank everyone for their perspectives and them that completes the first thought experiment. 

Part II
“Ok now we’re going to start question II.” No need to connect this to the first question. Just swiftly move to this new topic. 

“Now, let’s imagine that those who exist in the 25th century just watched a video of the past few minutes, listening to all of your responses to that thought experiment. What do you think they’d observe about us humans who live in the year 2024 based upon your answers. What are the characteristics of our intelligence? What are our cultural norms? How do we understand reality?” 

To further help them understand this question, “to help you think this through, imagine you’re looking at those who lived in the 9th century, or the 3rd century or even a caveman, and what you may observe about them and the way they understood reality.” 

One of the first responses you get may be something like: 

“They’d think we’re primitive. Basically stupid. That we do all of these silly self-destructive things that don’t actually make us happy and when we have an opportunity to get access to technology that makes us better we say no to it.” 

“That we think we shortsightedly overvalue individual autonomy, believing it to be the ultimate virtue.” 

“Yeah, I think that’s right. That we’re idiots that can’t do what’s in our own best self interest.” 

On this question, participants will routinely people will get off track:  

“In the future, there will be so much abundant energy and food and materials that everything will be free. We won’t even have to work. We can then do art all day. Hang out with friends. Play video games. Smoke weed lol. Do everything we’ve always wanted to do. That would be a dream. I can’t wait for that day to arrive.” 

They’ve forgotten the question which is to focus on what the 25th century is observing of humans in 2024 based upon the answers they offered to the first question. Before you jump in, someone else is likely to jump in to “yes and” their answer: 

	“Completely agree. War won’t even be a thing because everyone will have everything they want.	
There will be nothing to fight over. People will be replacing their old bodies with young bodies. We’ll have enhanced intelligence that will allow us to know anything whenever we need it.” 

Someone may respond to them saying: 

“People are always going to fight each other. We’re always going to go to war over something.” 

Let them do their thing for 30 seconds and then warmly bring people back to the question: 

“As a reminder, the question is, if people in the 25th century saw a recording of the conversation we just had, what would they observe about human intelligence, norms, customs and ethics?” 

Someone will probably take the contrarian position now given that the “primitive” argument has been made. 

“I think they’ll envy us. That we did whatever we wanted whenever we wanted it. And they’re stuck in an algorithm and can’t do anything.” 

Gather up everyone’s response. Make sure everyone has had the opportunity to speak. 

By now people are feeling comfortable in the group. You’ll need to assertively step into the conversation now because if things are going well, everyone is now energetically engaged and have forgotten about the rules. If you think it’s the right call for the group dynamics, you can say something along the following lines: 

“Everyone, this conversation is going so well. Your responses are great. We’re all clearly getting along. A quick reminder that to maintain this warmth, try to keep your responses snappy. Limited to 10-20 seconds. This will keep things moving along quickly. Also, it’s great for everyone in the group to have a chance to speak so if you see that others haven’t spoken, give them a little time and space to speak up. Great, let’s keep going.”   

The group will likely be warmed up and eager to express their opinions about everything, on and off topic. Participants will frequently forget about the questions you’ve posed, the topics at hand and the objective of the gathering. They just want to speak and be heard.  This is all great, support the exciting atmosphere. This is also where the “talks too much” person emerges and you’ll need to wrestle that immediately or they’ll derail the positive group energy. 

You’ll need to step in, potentially speaking over one or several people given the fast exchanges that are happening. 

“We’ve now completed the first two questions of our journey. Let’s retrace where we’ve been. In the first thought experiment, you confidently stated your conclusions to a rather provocative question that challenged your ideas, beliefs, preferences and understanding of reality. When the question was posed, you clearly assessed it as a complicated one. 

Needing to respond, you searched your mind for what models of existence help you explain your viewpoint on this question. Some of you found the model of autonomy and individual decision making. Others of you referenced the model of self improvement. Others health. And so on. Each of you chose a different model of reality and mapped it to this very complicated question. So in short, you used your power of “knowing” to confidently answer.

In the second question, you were humbled in your previous confidence knowing that every generation looks upon previous generations as primitive and you imagined that this may be our destiny as well. That your opinions are not some sort of enduring truth like math and physics, but rather ephemeral shared cultural norms and beliefs.” 

Thought experiment 1 and 2 create a sharp juxtaposition between “knowing” and “not knowing”. Together they invite us to consider that in the same moment but with slightly different context, we can rapidly transition from confidently knowing to considering that we may not know at all.  

Now it’s time to move onto the third question: “Ok now, it’s time for the third question.” 

Part III 

“I’m going to express a hypothesis that I’d like you to entertain for the sake of conversation. We humans are currently the stewards of knowledge. We learn things. We share things. We discover things. We are the most knowing thing on this planet. However soon, it’s likely that AI will know more than any one of us and all of us. It’s also likely that AI will be better at discovery than any one of us and all of us. 

If this is accurate, then it means that we are transitioning as a species from knowing to not knowing. To put this into context (and I’ll share a personal example), when I went to college, I could reasonably map out what I was going to study in school, what job I’d have and when I would retire. An entire life planned. 

My 19 year old just completed his first year of school and he has no idea what he’s going to study because he has no idea what the world will be like in 2 years when he graduates. He’s currently studying computer science, math and physics but would he be better off studying the humanities? No one knows. This not knowing what the world will be like in a few years time is true for all of us. 

This example of my son demonstrates what happens when our level of “knowing” is lessened. We can’t plan as easily. We have more uncertainty. We can’t make well reasoned decisions as the variables to consider are outside our knowing. 

Now whether you're bullish or bearish on AI, remember, our gathering here is to explore the future of being human from the perspective of a few hundred years into the future. Not the next 5, 10 or 50 years. You may have an opinion that AI is overhyped or underhyped. That’s not what we’re focused on here. We’re trying to look at this moment in the same way that we’d look at the 3rd century and see how macro trends play out over hundreds of years.

So here’s the question for you, in this moment of accelerated change where we increasingly cannot see even years ahead of us, what do we do as a species? What do we humans do when you’re giving birth to superintelligence? This is the most important and pressing question on planet earth.” 

Participants will be quiet for a moment as they spin up new thoughts. Someone will break the silence and you’ll then hear some of the following answers: 

“We need ethical AI. We need to slow down its development until we think we have the appropriate safeguards in place. We need governments to step in and create regulations so that we avoid catastrophic outcomes.” 

In response: 

“The U.S. and China are in an arms race to Artificial General Intelligence (AGI). What do you suggest happens between the U.S. and China?” 

Your follow on question will demonstrate that arm-chair assessments of the world won’t actually change anything. It’s not actually a plan but wishful thinking. Eight billion humans are doing what they think best at any given moment and as much as each of us want the world to conform with our perspectives, it’s unlikely. Highlight this by asking questions to attendees to help them think deeper about their responses. Most will quickly realize that unless they're in a position of government power or building AI, it’s challenging to come up with realistic paths to influence the direction of AI.  

Other perspectives will emerge: 

“I think we just start to plan to live in a world where AI runs everything. We’re not going to have jobs or anything really to do. We need to create communities and go back to our roots being together and forming bonds.”  

Participants will be getting warmed up: 

“Ultimately AI is going to do everything for us. It will be a tool that will do everything we want it to do. All these fears of AI taking over are overblown. It will be a tool like every other technology has been.” 

Varied perspectives will emerge: 

“It will give us more time to have babies and raise them which is important because we are in a population decline and we need more babies.” 

It will carry on like this for a few minutes. Let it breathe and encourage more responses. At the right time, re-enter the conversation. 

“Ok, let’s take stock of where we’re at. The question was what do we do as a species when the rate of technological change is happening so fast that we struggle to see even a few years ahead of us. In a few years, we may only be able to see weeks or months ahead because the pace of change is accelerating. When we’re transitioning from knowing and planning to not knowing and not knowing how to plan, what do we do?” 

“If you’ll reflect on all the answers that were just offered, the one common pattern in everyone’s perspective was the element of knowing. You had a confident proposed solution on what must be done or what we should do. But how can we use our “knowing” when we don’t really know. When things may change faster than our knowing allows us to plan for. This is also what happened to thought experiment number one. Everyone was pretty confident they had a model of the world that helped them confidentially address the question. What do we do? 

So let me ask this again, and seriously, what do we do as a species on planet earth at this moment? This is an urgent question.” 

Participants will pause a few seconds and then one at a time they’ll all repeat the same pattern as they just did, offering solutions and plans for what we do. Let it go on for a few minutes. 

Interject “ok, so it looks like we followed a similar pattern that we’re applying our knowing to a situation where we don’t know. Everyone in the room has a different idea. Their own unique approach. Your own perspective. No one really agreed with anyone on anything. 

Notice, no one said “I don’t know”. 

So is it fair to conclude that we don’t really know what to do when giving birth to superintelligence?” 

Part IV - Introduction of Don’t Die 

“I have a proposal for all of you. I suggest that we do know what to do. It’s Don’t Die. 

Don’t die individually. 
Don’t kill each other. 
Don’t destroy the planet. 
Align AI with Don’t Die. 

Pause to give people time to process what they just heard. 

Don’t die is the most played game by every human on this planet every second of every day. It is the most played game in the world. It’s the most played game by all of biology. 

It’s played more than capitalism. More than religion. Don’t die is your zeroth order priority every second of every day. It is literally the only thing that we humans agree upon.

I started my Project Blueprint three years ago to become the most Don’t Die person in human history. It started after doing a thought experiment. I imagined being present in the 25th century listening to them observe what we H. sapiens did in the early 2020’s that allowed intelligence to thrive in this part of the galaxy. 

They observe that we pieced together that technology was moving along fast enough that it was reasonable to imagine that instead of death being inevitable, we were transitioning into an era where we may be able to increasingly extend our lifespans into unknown lengths. That we transitioned from an existence built upon Die to one of Don’t Die. 

That it no longer made sense to devote all of our energy to the accumulation of wealth, or followers, or professional achievement immortality. The wisest and most sensible path forward was to rebuild society around Don’t Die. Economically, politically, ethically, morally, spirtually and socially. 

Imagining that those in the 25 century may say this and believing it to be possibly accurate, I wondered how I could communicate this to others and decided that I would embody Don’t Die personally. So I hired a team of medical professionals and we evaluated all the scientific literature on longevity. We ranked all the science, prioritizing the most powerful, and put it all into me. But not before we tried to measure the biological age of every one of my 70+ organs. We wanted to know our baseline, where we were starting. 

Then we implemented all of the science into me and we measured the biological age of my body’s organs and biological processes again, and again and again, until I became the most measured person in history. 

We were trying to learn in as much detail as we could every way my body died on a daily basis and if we could either slow down that rate of death and or reverse the aging damage. Three years in, we have some pretty interesting results. 

After having poor health habits as a kid, running myself into the ground from 20 years of building companies, and a decade of chronic depression, now, at the chronological age of 46, my health biomarkers are in the top 1%. And not just the top 1% of 46 year olds, but on some of my markers, such as my cardiovascular fitness, I’m in the top 1% of 18 year olds. I celebrate my birthday every 19 months now. 

Top 1%: Speed of aging
Top 1%: Muscle mass & function
Top 1%: Fat mass
Top 1%: Inflammation
Top 1%: Cardiovascular
Top 1%: Bone mass
Top 1%: Sleep
Top 1%: Combined clinical markers
Top 1%: Nighttime erections

These data do not mean I’m going to live to 150 or that we’ve solved the elixir of youth. The experiment was about demonstrating what a Don’t Die life would look like. How would it contrast with today’s norms? 

Will my lifestyle be the norm in 2030? With the speed of technological progress, would 2030 people look back at 2024 people like we do those who lived in the 1800s? 

I go to bed at 8:30 pm. I don’t drink alcohol. I eat a precise diet where every calorie has had to fight for it’s life. I never eat processed sugar. I never eat pizza, donuts, diet soda or anything else. I exercise an hour a day. I never deviate from the protocol. I am the thought experiment in question one. I said yes to an algorithm because I believed that it could take better care of me than I can myself. 

I know after living for 47 years that up until three years ago, I was kind of helpless to stop my self destructive habits. Doing things that shortened my life. Increased my risk of disease. And left me feeling fatigued, grumpy and depressed. 

It was this weird juxtaposition where all day I built technology going from version 1 to version 2 to version 3. Meanwhile, personally, I’d continually make the same mistakes every single day. I wanted to improve myself too, going from version 1 to version 2 and so on. 

But Don’t Die is not just about personal health, it’s about a system of improvement. You could easily replace my body with planet earth and run the same experiment. 

Measure earth with billions of data points every second. Evaluate scientific evidence to determine a sustainable biosphere for the planet and then implement the protocol. The challenge right now is that we treat the earth like we treat our bodies. The relationship is identical, and we can’t stop ourselves from the self destruction. 

One other frame to help you begin to think about this. Smoking two cigarettes lessens your life by 30 minutes. That’s a die score. Now let’s try to apply that thinking to something else. Let’s take an American school lunch where you have a piece of pizza, chocolate milk and some canned vegetables. For simplification, let’s say that this school lunch has a die score of 7 minutes. We’re feeding our kids die. No one wants that to happen. 

I raise this because when you introduce Don’t Die to an adult, they’ll have an endless list of reasons why their vices are virtues. It’s about living life. If they can’t do those things they don’t know why they’d even exist. And so on. 

But you flip this and frame it as giving Die to a kid, it helps put this into perspective. Die is pernicious. Once you start peeling back this onion, you’ll learn that our entire reality is built on the inevitability of death. If we’re going to die anyways, then YOLO. Watch how quickly the mind fills the gap. Our entire society is built atop of die. Sleeping under your desk for work is mythology to be retold. Going for nights without sleep is something others marvel at. Debauchery is our preferred form of entertainment. We’re so deep into it and can’t imagine another reality that it’s all consuming. 

The hate I’ve received from being public about my endeavor has been pretty astonishing. I’ve spent millions on this project with the medical experts and measurement, making all my information available for free for everyone - no strings attached - to be met with a tsunami of hate. 

People use all the derogatory frames they can think of “tech bro, patrick bateman, dorian grey, prometheus, crazy billionaire, and eccentric.” They say: 


	“Bro so busy not dying he forgot to live.” 
	“A life of misery.” 
	“It’s going to be hilarious when he gets hit by a bus!” 

All these comments are fine. I actually love it. People are engaged. They don’t have the larger context of why I’m doing this. As you can see from this conversation today, these ideas are hard to understand. They sit behind dozens of defense mechanisms that each of us has that are ready to kill the idea on the spot. Only after focused conversation with a small intimate group can you even begin to contemplate the larger questions facing the human race right now.  

So that’s it. That’s why I brought you all here tonight. To propose that Don’t Die become our primary identity and primary shared objective. It’s the thing we do when technological progress is accelerating faster than any human can comprehend. It’s the most practical and wise thing we can do as a species. 

And more specifically, that no existing way humans have structured society, including democracy, capitalism, socialism, any religion has the answers for what to do when you’re giving birth to superintelligence. In short, we….don’t…know. The only thing we know to be true is that none of us want to die in this moment. 

We do not know what our future wants and preferences will be. We likely cannot even begin to imagine what the future will be like. We are like a caveman hundreds of thousands years ago, we have no reference in our mind to state anything about the future. 

Now this does not mean that we know exactly how to implement Don’t Die across society. If there is one dollar to spend on Don’t Die, where is it spent? 

Just like when the thirteen American colonies declared independence from the British and decided to try this new thing called democracy, they had more questions than answers and had to get to work to solve the practicalities. America has been fighting about democracy ever since and there is no end insight. 


Don’t Die is similar. It is equally if not more complex. We will need time to figure this out. 

What’s important however is getting the direction right. 

Don’t Die is the universal human interest. The singular thing that we can agree upon. Not wanting to die is perhaps the only thing in existence that we can say we know. 

This moment is akin to being present with Homo erectus a million years ago and asking them to tell us about the future of the species. We’d laugh at their perspectives. Relative to AI, we may be equally if not more primitive in our thoughts and imaginations. The wisest thing for us to say may be: we……don’t…..know. 

That’s probably closer to the truth than what anyone can say at this moment. 

I’ll pause there and would love to hear your thoughts.” 

At this point, participants have so much going on in their minds. They’re frightened that this may be correct. They’re questioning what they know about reality. They’re trying to find arguments that would kill this idea so they can return to their status quo. They may be experiencing a profound existential crisis. 

Let the room breathe. A few people will start talking. Some will try to create rebuttals. Some will feel saddened and want to give up. Most will feel stunned. Some will still be trying to offer up solutions. Let them talk and sort the ideas in their minds. 

As you do more of these gatherings, you’ll learn how to play with the group’s conversational interests to keep the conversation going. You’ll also learn increasingly robust ways to have this conversation. Don’t Die is a formidable idea. It’s pretty hard to push aside. In all my conversations, no one has wrestled it to defeat. Many have made great, insightful points however in my estimation, Don’t Die has always prevailed. That of course isf my subjective opinion and the attendee may have left with the impression that they thoroughly disproved it as a viable path forward. That’s ok too. The goal is a unique, expansive, friendly conversation. You’re there to learn as much as everyone else. 

Part V 

To end the evening, return to the original thought experiment. 

“Everyone, I have a thought experiment for you to consider. If you had access to an algorithm that could give you the best physical, emotional and spiritual health of your life, but in exchange for that, you did what the algorithm said. You went to bed when it advised. You ate what it recommended. You exercised when it suggested. Would you say yes or no?” 

You’ll get some smiles and a mixed set of responses. 

I’ll explain that I built this discussion format and specifically the first question because it perfectly captures the tension between knowing and not knowing. How even though you were promised that you yourself would report “the best physical, emotional and spiritual health of your life”, people still said no to it. It’s such a beautiful juxtaposition to our reality. We spend our existence trying to achieve that state and yet when it’s offered to us we have endless reasons to explain why we don’t want it. 

That the second question is meant to humble us from our overconfidence expressed in the first question. 

That the third question is to demonstrate how badly we want to know. That when we don’t know, we panic and fill the empty space with knowing. That saying I…..don’t…..know was not muttered by a single person during the conversation. Everyone knew. Everyone had a plan. Even when they were reminded that all their answers were “knowing” in response to a question of “not knowing” they could not stop themselves from filling the space with certainties of some type. 

That the concept Don’t Die is a new for foreign idea. It disrupts our normally scheduled lives. It threatens our values, routines and vices. It’s scary and you want to bury the idea to make it go away. 

People will want to talk about their thoughts, emotions and reconcile with what just happened but it will be too much to square in their mind. 

[ the ask ] 

Thank everyone for attending and for their wonderful engagement and group cohesion. End the evening inviting each person to share one thing they’re thinking about from the evening and then shout out one group member for saying something that helped them process the discussion. 

Explain that we are building a global Don’t Die community and invite them to be part of it. Either as a member of a local chapter or as a leader of their own chapter. Explain that chapters will be diverse and pursue various aspects of Don’t Die including health, politics, economics, environment, social norms and more. They can download the Don’t Die App today to be part of the community and that we’re moving quickly to extend the things we’re doing as a community. Invite them to host a Don’t Die gathering themselves with their friends and family. Share that we have a guide that can help them. 

Then do a group hug and wish everyone well, invite them to join Don’t Die and say yes to what may become the most extraordinary existence in this part of the galaxy! 


 
Notes and Observations from the 024/12-14 Independent Host Meeting (DD Dinner Themed)

Here were the general observations:
The Don’t Die Dinners have shown the following trouble: Unmet/Unclear Member Expectations
There is a learning curve to hosting Dinners
Not only the people in attendance, but also the hosts themselves will bring a distinct twist to each meeting. Following the Bryan format may not always work to a T.

Here are our proposed solutions:
Dinners can have a graduation type model, where you complete the first level and learn from it before moving to the next. 
Ex: Friends, then Family, then your DD community/chapter, then Strangers, and finally Thought Leaders. 
Each has a different variable at play, making the interactions easier or harder.

We’re not Bryan, and so pulling in new faces every time is harder. As such, leaving them with a sense of shock and uncertainty in the face of “The Unknown Unknown” may not be a replicable tactic. 
Hosts may not be comfortable with this dynamic, opting to focus on a specific topic, leaving the members hopeful (which in turn will promote community bonds, whereas shock may act as an antagonist)



And finally, not only may we want to have different Dinner guides for the “Graduation levels”, but also 3 tiers of Dinner conversations depending on the readiness of the group (Especially applicable with repeat groups).
Health prioritization (Or other Specific topics)
Don’t Die as a philosophical approach
AI & developing the Autonomous-Self


Graduation:
Friends - More likely to share your values, will be patient and understanding.
Family - Less likely to share your values, but still patient and understanding.
Community - More likely to share your values, but less likely to be patient and understanding.
Strangers - Unlikely to share your values, and unlikely to be patient and understanding.
Thought Leaders - Powerful personalities who will need convincing, but offer the highest ROI   (with the highest degree of challenge)
Each tier can have a distinct guide format created, with possible branching paths and expectectations.
-Once this becomes a professionally rendered document, it could/should have a self-eval section with a checklist to evaluate possibilities for improvement. 
-Establishing a Quarterly seminar led by an experience Dinner host could then serve as an opportunity to address questions and meaningfully improve.


